Welcome back.
In this video we're going to create the facility for users to comment on posts and the way we do that
is going to create a new page.
And this is going to be a page template.
So say this are comments Dopp.
P.
And service in the same directories as also AP HP.
And then for this well I'm going to reinvent the wheel.
We're just going to copy the comments page from the 2014 theme which is included with the word press
download.
So if you go to your WordPress installation in the page to docs.
And then open up tranquil w.p. and then if you go into the content and themes and when you use the 2014
theme and then open up the common stock page B.
So select all copy.
And then paste the content in two common stock plan B and say that.
So we're really pretty much all of the comment stoppie HP as it is will just move the word press 2014
references just from there are certain benefits of using the template from one of the included themes.
It had some nice features such as chicken if a post is password protected and has only one or two little
things we need to change.
If I scroll down to the printer F line and I want to customize it slightly by changing one fought to
comment and then on the next line change for its two comments and then saves up.
And then to include this back in to our theme we need to go to the single dot HP template and then when
put it underneath the pager we need to tell WordPress where to bolt in the blog post we want the comments
to appear.
And its usually at the bottom of the post.
So let's put this just below the pager and then add a comment just in here.
This comment and when I say load up the common template.
And then after that open up the page petersburg's.
And then use the comments template function.
And save an ID for go over to a blog post and refresh.
You should see at the bottom of the post that we have got the ability now to leave comments.
Let's go ahead and on a few sample comments.
Chick it's all working okay.
So those are first comments and also reply to the comments.
Say hello on an impulse to comment.
JC It's all work in.
So there's are two comments on Nurse That's good.
So next I want to go into the CSA.
Add some custom styling and make sure that the comments fit in a little bit more with the rest of the
website.
So head over to our style of SS.
And then when I add some style into the bottom of the page.
So copy the comments.
Are this just below the blog single post and change the comment to be the comment section.
So to get started I will make sure that the comments section at the bottom has a similar missile into
the sidebar modules and also the blog posts are underway to do that is by copying the same style as
we used in the sidebar module.
So did copy this section.
And then find the Selecter.
So we open up the chrome developer tools.
We'd inspect element we need to find the idae of the container which surrounds all of the common section.
So click the magnifying glass.
And find the surrounding container.
So it's the div with idea of comments and then a class of comments area.
So let's add that in now.
So the idea of an I.D. of comments in the class of comments hyphen area.
And then paste in the stylin.
Let's see how that looks.
Goods that stylin now matches the rest of the page.
And next I just want to highlight the comments just so stunned that a little bit more from the rest
of the background so we get this a dark grey background and also add a board around and also a little
bit a margin just to separate them out.
So the class or a need is comments body.
So first of all we'll start with the background and buckram quilla is e.
And then the border radius.
Is 10 pixels to much the rest of the site and then the margin put 30 pixels on the top and bottom and
zero on the left and right.
So let's save refresh.
Next I want to add the divider image between the header and the comments.
So let's find out the Selecta for the.
So click on the magnifying glass.
And the header.
So that's got a plus of hate to comments title sites are by now.
So hate to.
And then the class of comments from title.
And then ascribe the same styling that were used in the blog post title so we scroll up to the blog
section and look for the blog post title.
We can copy the exact same s s which gives us the image and also East Ireland.
And paste this into the comments title section and save.
And let's take a look.
So that's a good.
So next I want to add a little bit a margin onto the bottom of the comments.
And also a dashed line across to separate the reply section.
So to do that we need to use the class of comment list.
So let's add some margin margin to the bottom of 60 pixels and then bored on to the bottom.
Of one pixel and a dashed line.
Now take a look.
So there we go.
And then we're nearly there now.
Let's do a little bit of style into the reply section.
So and when make the textarea to be the full width.
So let's get the class for that.
So this elective for that is text area with the idea of comments.
So type in text area.
The idea of comments.
So said the textarea wit to be 100 percent.
And add some margin on to the bottom of 20 pixels.
And then refresh sanaz full width.
And the last thing and I want to do is style the submit button and I want to make it the same as the
submit button that we used on bootstrap website.
So it's got the same blue colour as the rest of the website.
So let's find out what the slichter is.
So the import has an idea of Submit.
So we can just submit idae on to the button defaults up in a global section.
So just after button default separated by a comma.
Also the idea of Submit.
And then do the same in the hovell state.
Submit.
Hover.
And then back down to the comment section.
So under the text area section also are the submit idae.
And let's make the button much the textarea.
By giving a width of 100 percent.
So let's say that and see how that look.
And refresh.
And we don't need the developer tools anymore.
So that took a about an hour today.
Good.
So one thing that you may not know is so far when we've been out in the comments and we click on the
Reply button as soon as we hit reply were taken to the bottom of the screen to add a reply and this
is fine.
For now one morning I got one or two comments on a page that's caught tens or hundreds of comments would
only be taken right down to the bottom of the page.
We want the comment box to appear just underneath the post of a comment and on and luckily WordPress
has some javascript to do this so the wolken other Javascript in is by her notes to the functions of
HP.
If will look for the enqueue script section in the Feme set up just underneath the bootstrap javascript.
Go going to add the common reply script so I will check first if the post is singular.
No one kulis script just as above with WP in queue scripts.
The script name is comment reply.
In a semicolon at the end of the.
So save that.
And if he go over to press and refresh.
Now if you click on the Reply button answers not work on some reason or just check why whistle tech
to bomb the page.
So I'll take a look with this.
I will need to make sure that it's within the code braces.
So could this section are they were just done and paste it would in the code races or add in the function.
So save that and let's see the work in now.
So click on the reply and no golts now rather than being taken to the very bottom of the page.
We now have the javascript enabled and this make sure that the.
Box.
A pig is just below the comments that were replying on.
So there goes that a fully functional common section.
So thanks for listening and will see it in the next video.